This is the README file of the mincho-0-12-20080306.tar.gz package.

The original font file is

  ftp://ftp.ipl.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp/Font/wadalab-mincho-0-12.8.tar.Z

which can be also found at CTAN as

  support/ghostscript/3rdparty/fonts/kanji/Font/wadalab-mincho-0-12.8.tar.gz

It has been first converted with a patched version of the program `wftodm',
then with the scripts `makefont' (version 1.0) and `fixwada2.pl' to produce
a set of PFB, AFM, and TFM subfont files in DNP font encoding which can be
used with the CJK package for LaTeX.

The script `makeuniwada.pl' has been used to create virtual fonts which
provide Unicode font encoding; all those scripts are part of the CJK
package.

The half-width katakana glyphs have been derived from the full-width forms
of Wadalab Gothic (in file `dgjkata.pfb'); FontForge was used to edit the
glyphs and create the PFB, AFM, and TFM files. To make the virtual font for
UTF-8 encoding, `clonevf.pl' from the CJK package was used to make a mapped
copy (to itself) of `dmjhw.tfm'.  The VF file was converted to VPL, and the
entries modified to reflect a mapping from UTF-8 to SJIS.  Then they were
added, along with a reference to the mapped font, to the VPL version of the
existing Wadalab `udmjff.vf'.  Then new VF and TFM files were created from
`udmjff.vpl'.  Note that `dmjhw.pfb' is simply a copy of `dgjhw.pfb'.

This font package follows the TDS directory structure; the font family names
for DNP and Unicode font encodings are `dmj' and `udmj', respectively. Note
that you need the mincho-1-8-20080306.tar.gz font bundle to access the
level 3 kanji -- this isn't a good fit (mincho 8 is a lighter face than
mincho 12) but better than nothing.

Please read the documentation file `contrib/wadalab/DNP.doc' of the CJK
package for further details on installation and usage; there you can also
find a proper font mapping file and font definition files for use with
LaTeX.


History
-------

    2005-07-12
      First release.

    2005-07-30
      Fix dmjkb where glyph names were off by 1.

    2008-03-06
      Integrate Gernot Hassenpflug's dgjhw font for half-width katakana
      (taken from the `hwkatakana' package on CTAN).

      Add a font map file.

---End of README---
